# Gigantidas-childressi-16S-microbiome-analysis
Investigating microbial community dynamics during early life-history transitions in the chemosymbiotic mussel, Gigantidas childressi

Abstract - 
Marine invertebrates form specific associations with bacterial communities that are different from their environment, change throughout their development, and shape evolutionary and ecological processes. The bathymodiolin (Mytilidae) mussel Gigantidas childressi lives at deep-sea methane seeps and relies on methanotrophic endosymbionts for its nutrition. Its larval life, however, is spent feeding in the water column. Upon metamorphosis at a suitable seep habitat, methanotrophic bacteria rapidly colonize gill tissue and the juvenile mussel switches to symbiont-derived energy for the remainder of its life. To determine if the microbiome of the G. childressi changes during these transitions, the V3/V4 region of the 16S rRNA gene was sequenced to census the bacterial diversity within G. childressi across different developmental stages. Bacterial diversity was relatively low in all samples, but results show strong evidence for the re-organization of the larval, juvenile, and adult gill microbiomes based on stage-specific shifts in both habitat and nutritional mode. In planktotrophic (feeding) larvae, the microbiome is influenced in part by the environment, with key ASVs assigning to environmental generalists such as Pseudomonas and Sphingomonas. Other taxa were specific to pediveligers and veligers and were not found in juveniles, adult gill tissue, or the surrounding water. Chloroplast sequences were detected in most swimming larvae, potentially as a component of the larval diet in the form of eukaryotic phytoplankton in the gut. Our results also suggested that initial infection of chemoautotrophic symbionts occur before settlement and metamorphosis in pediveligers of G. childressi, which were enriched for several potential chemoautotrophic symbionts that were found in juveniles and adult gill tissue. In early juveniles, the microbiome is mainly composed of several strains of methanotrophic symbionts known to inhabit G. childressi. Unexpectedly, we also detected thiotrophic, sulfur-oxidizing symbionts from the SUP05 cluster, as well as the heavy-oil degrading Cycloclasticus, both of which have been described as symbionts of closely related Bathymodiolin species, but not in adults of G. childressi. The unexpected diversity of symbionts in small juveniles decreases as the mussel matures, eventually resulting in 2 dominant phylotypes we observed in adult gill tissue, one particularly abundant methanotroph and the thiotrophic epibiont.
